== About ==

This is the gem to install for the supported version of sunspot_rails on websolr.

== Installation == 

  cd your_rails_app
  sudo gem install websolr-sunspot_rails
  config.gem "websolr-sunspot_rails"         # into config.environment.rb
  echo websolr-sunspot_rails >> .gems        # if using Heroku
  ./script/generate sunspot                  # Installs config/sunspot.yml
  require 'sunspot/rails/tasks' >> Rakefile  # Installs local development tasks      

== Usage

=== Setup

In order for an ActiveRecord model to be indexable and searchable, it must be
configured for search. For example:

  class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
    searchable do
      text :title, :body
      integer :blog_id
      time :updated_at
      string :sort_title do
        title.downcase.sub(/^(an?|the) /, '')
      end
    end
  end

See the documentation for Sunspot.setup for full details on what can go in the
configuration block.

=== Indexing

By default, models are indexed whenever they are saved, and removed from the
index whenever they are destroyed. This behavior can be disabled:

  class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
    searchable :auto_index => false, :auto_remove => false do
      # setup...
    end
  end

Note that <b>using the <code>:auto_remove</code> option is not recommended
</b>, as destroying an object without removing it from the index will
create an orphaned document in the index, which is a Bad Thing. Turning off
<code>:auto_index</code> is perfectly safe if you prefer to manage indexing manually
(perhaps using a background job).

If you have disabled lifecycle indexing hooks, you can invoke indexing
operations directly on your model:

  post = Post.create
  post.index
  post.remove_from_index

=== Committing

When data is changed in Solr, it is initially stored in memory and not made
available to the currently running searcher instance. Issuing a +commit+ to Solr
will cause it to write the changes to disk, and instantiate a new searcher
instance. This operation is fairly expensive, so rather than issuing a commit
every time a document is added or removed, Sunspot::Rails issues a commit at
the end of any request where data has been added to or removed from Solr. If
you need to immediately issue a commit, bang!-versions of the methods are
available:

  post = Post.create
  post.index!
  # this is the same as...
  post.index
  Sunspot.commit

When writing tests outside of the context of a controller request, you will want
to use one of these two approaches.

=== Searching

Do it like this:

  Post.search do
    with :blog_id, 1
    with(:updated_at).greater_than(Time.now - 2.weeks)
    order :sort_title, :asc
    paginate :page => 1, :per_page => 15
  end

See the documentation for <code>Sunspot.search</code> for all the options
available in the search block, and the information available in the result
block.

=== Searching for IDs

In some situations, you may want to get the IDs for models returned by a search
without actually loading the models out of the database. For that, you can
call +search_ids+, using the same block format as #search. This will return an
array of IDs.


=== Searching for multiple types

Sunspot is entirely agnostic about whether searches are for one or more types;
the only restriction is that columns used for restriction, ordering, etc. are
defined in the same way for all types being searched. Sunspot::Rails does not
provide any additional support for this, since there is not anything useful to
be added, so just use the interface provided by Sunspot:

  Sunspot.search(Post, Comment) do
    with :blog_id, 1
    order :created_at, :asc
  end

Be sure to check out the Sunspot documentation for all the details.

=== Adding search functionality in mixins

Sunspot does not require that search setup for a given class happen all in one
place; it is perfectly acceptable to call the <code>Sunspot.setup</code> method
more than once. This capability is particularly useful for adding search
functionality in mixins. For instance, if you have a +Ratable+ module, you may
wish to add additional search fields for searchable classes that mix in that
module. For example:

  module Ratable
    def self.included(base)
      if base.searchable?
        base.searchable do
          float :average_rating do
            ratings.average(:value)
          end
        end
      end
    end
  end

Note the use of <code>base.searchable?</code> - this ensures that only classes
that already have search enabled will have the additional configuration added.
The above pattern requires that the class be declared searchable before the
module is mixed in; other patterns (such as passing a :searchable option to an
acts_as_-style declaration) may be more flexible.

=== Utility methods

If you need to completely reindex all of the instances of a given model class,
you can issue:

  Post.reindex

If for some reason models get deleted from the database, but not from the index,
they will become index orphans - not a good situation. To get IDs that exist in
the index but not the database, you can use the +index_orphans+ method; to
remove those documents from the index, use +clean_index_orphans+. Note that
neither of these operations should be needed if Sunspot and Sunspot::Rails are
used as intended.


== Testing Solr integration using RSpec

To disable the sunspot-solr integration for your active record models, add the
following line to your spec_helper.rb

require 'sunspot/spec/extension'

This will disable all automatic after_save/after_destroy solr-requests generated
via the #searchable method. This will not disable/mock explicit calls in your code.

If you want to test the sunspot-solr integration with active record, you can 
reenable the after_save/after_destroy hooks by adding 'integrate_sunspot' in your
examples.

  describe Searches do
    integrate_sunspot
    
    before(:each) do
      @movie = Factory.create :movie
    end
    
    it "should find a movie" do
      Movie.search { keywords @movie.title }.first.should == @movie
    end
  end



== Further Reading

Reading the {Sunspot documentation}[http://outoftime.github.com/sunspot/docs] is
highly recommended. Sunspot::Rails exists to wrap Sunspot with a Rails-friendly
API, but almost all of the functionality you use in Sunspot::Rails is
implemented in Sunspot.